Hello and welcome to this new bite into toile So we're going to start our implementation now to solve
our classification problem.
This classification problem is to predict if a tumor is cancerous or benign and we're going to predict
that thanks to nine independent variables which are for example the clum thickness or the mitosis.
We are going to use again gradient boosting because there will not be preliminary analysis of the data.
And the problem you know whether or not it is linear or with outliers or with a certain distribution
of the features we want do such Bryer analysis but we actually don't need to because the model we're
going to use is one of the best models.
One of the most powerful models of machine learning and besides using this gradient boosting model for
classification will give me the opportunity to show you how you can switch very easily from regression
to classification.
And that's our starting point right now.
You know as you can see I'm having the regression implementation and I'm going to show you how you can
very efficiently switch to classification by only changing a few parameters.
All right so let's do this.
First of all the first thing we need to do is restart the kernel because we want to reset everything
and restart to zero.
So here you click on this tool button and then you click on restart kernel.
That's the first thing you should do if it's not already done.
And then the second thing we're going to do here we go the kernel is restarted.
Now the second thing we're going to do is create a new file of course because this will be the python
file for declassification So let's do this.
You click on file here you file and then here we go.
Perfect.
We're going to select all this to lead it.
And now since we want to switch easily from aggression to classification.
Well what I'm going to do is take my regression implementation select everything copy go back to this
future classification file.
And here let's just replace regression by classification perfect no worries that's not the only thing
we have to do but you'll be surprised that we have actually very few things left to do to tackle our
classification problem.
So but before we do any more changes in this implementation remember what we have to do that very very
important we must be in the right working directory for that.
So that's why right now I'm going to fall explore.
And then here is the regression folder.
So now we want to go back to our main introduction to data science folder and now we want to go to the
classification folder.
And as you saw in the Bruce article I told you to download this breast cancer as well and then put it
in your classification folder and that's exactly what I did here.
I'm going to show you right now.
Remember you can directly click on the dataset here and there we go.
This time it doesn't even open some text or excel like you know it did for regression.
It had to open excel.
But here it actually opened this as we felt directly in spider.
So that's even more amazing.
And there we go.
You can see what I did.
I put simply the names of the attributes as the first line line one here and I just separated them by
commas because this is a C as we fell which means that the values are separated by commas.
So yes the means comma separated values.
And so you just need to separate the names by come as again as the values here.
And then as I told you I removed all the lines all the observations that contained question marks that
is missing values.
Perfect.
And now let's get our implementation ready.
So first we're going to save this classification in this folder a working directory folder.
And so here we need to go back to Introduction to data science and now to classification.
There we go and we can just call it the spice file class c v.
Cl. save.
And here we go.
We are ready to start.
All right so the best way to switch from regression to classification is just to check every line.
You know we check every line we need to see if we have to change something and if we change it.
All right so let's do it line by line.
The first line is importing the libraries.
Yes we will need depends.
Library again.
So we don't touch this then second line.
We import the dataset here.
Well here we have actually two things to change.
The first thing is related to the fact that this time we don't have an excel file.
We have a C as well and therefore we're not going to use the read underscore Excel function by Penders
but just name the read underscore C as V.
Basically with that you have two main functions to import datasets the read underscores the function
to import cc files and the read underscore as a function to import Exel files.
Ok so read on this course and then of course the second thing we need to change is the name of the data
set which is no longer FULDE fives times to underscore that Excel as X.
But this time it's more meaningful maybe breast the score cancer but C as we.
Let's not forget this.
OK so now it's better and we can actually try.
If you want.
Let's import pends first.
There we go.
Ben is important.
And now let's import the dataset.
Let's do this.
Execute.
Here we go.
Let's check.
Variable explore.
And here is our dataset.
So it now has 683 observations and then we have our 11 attributes which so far contain all the original
attributes we had in the original dataset.
So let's check them out quickly we have the symbol code number.
The Klump thickness uniformity of cell size.
The uniformity of cell shape.
The marginal addition.
The single epithelial cell size Bernoulli Blen chromatin normal nuclear we and our class and I remind
that to means benign and for means malignant.
All right so again these are our independent variables optimises here and from all these independent
variables we're going to try to understand some correlations between them and this class here.
Whether or not the tumor is cancerous to eventually predict if this class here which is the dependent
variable has value to for.
All right so that's the problem.
And now the solution.
So next line x.
So here there is something interesting which I already mentioned.
It's the fact that you know remember X takes a subset of the data set that contains all the lines and
then all the columns except the last one.
Right.
Because the last one is a dependent variable and X only takes the independent variables.
However among these attributes here there is definitely one that has literally no impact on the dependent
variable.
You can guess what this is.
This is the simple code number.
Of course this is just a key identifier.
That of course has no impact or no effect or not any relationship with the fact that a tumor is cancerous
or benign.
So we can remove this even if the gradient boosting algorithm will detect that it has nothing to do
with it.
We can already remove it.
That will not only help our gradient boosting mo but also this makes much more sense.
And that's exactly what we have to do here in this line to get the array x in the pin enviro's.
We just want to get everything except the last one of course because that's deepening.
I will also accept the first one because the simple code number was the first column.
And remember in Python the indexes started 0.
So this first column has an exit row and therefore we don't want to include the index 0 and therefore
instead of starting here at zero because remember that by not putting anything here that means that
we're starting at zero.
And so instead of starting at zero here.
Well we will start at 1 in order to not include this first column.
And there we go.
Now we will have a better X..
We can create it.
And here we go.
We obtained this time indeed a matrix of nine independent variables and you can check that these are
the right values of the independent variables starting from the clum thickness.
OK.
So that's good for X.
And now why do you think we need to change something here.
Well of course absolutely not because the dependent variable is still in the last column.
It is this class here.
That's the last column and here remember by taking the index minus one here for the column.
Well that means that we're taking the last column because minus one is exactly the index of the last
column.
And there we go.
We don't have to change anything here.
We are ready to execute this perfect.
We can check it out.
Yes that's definitely the dependent variable with the two letters two for benign and for for cancers.
OK.
And now let's move onto the next line or even the next code section because of course here we don't
have anything to change.
We will still import to try and test it function to you know have this training set to train the model
and then this test set to test the model.
So of course we need this nothing to change.
Here let's see we are creating x strain X test Y train Y test which we get from the trenches function
which takes as arguments the full matrix of independent variables X the fool dependent variable y and
test size of 20 percent meaning that we will get 80 percent of the data in the training set to train
the model and 20 percent of the data set to test them all.
And that's fair enough.
That's actually the value that I recommend to take most of the time.
And then a random state equals zero if you want if you want to get exactly the same result as I do that
is exactly the same training set and tested.
All right so perfect nothing to change here.
I'm selecting these two lines.
And here we go we have our training sets composed of X train and y train and our test set composed of
X test and Y test.
We don't need to check this.
Everything's all good.
If you really have a look if you are.
All right so now next line that's when things get really interesting because that's really at this point
that the switch is so easy you know gradient boosting works as well for regression as for classification.
And now I'm going to make the switch.
It's so easy.
The only thing that you need to do and you might guess what it is is to replace regressors by classifier
and that's it your gradient boosting class for class is really done here of course need to change the
name of the class again.
Gradient boosting class fire didn't make everything perfect.
We will of course replace the name of our object here which I remind is our model.
You know the model itself as opposed to this class which is the symbol of instructions that allow to
define the model with all the great and boosting algorithm plus the tools the methods we can use like
training it on the trainset or predicting some new observations either on the set or any new observations.
Well here since that's exactly our model we're going to call it of course classifier classifier.
And then I'm going to copy this because that's the same here I'm replacing the aggressor by classifying
and that's it.
Here's how you do this which basically very simple.
We just had to replace regressors by classifiers with capital C capital CS.
So that's pretty amazing.
Not only it takes again three lines of code but we didn't have much effort to do.
And you'll see that the results are going to be really amazing.
OK so let's create our moral that is the green boost the morale and let's train it on the training set.
We are ready for that.
Let's do this.
Here we go all the different parameters again taken are most ready not only it is ready but it is also
trained.
So now we are ready to predict the test results.
So I get a little warning here telling me that there is an undefined aggressor.
Of course that's the final change the very last change we have to do replacing regressors by classifying.
And there we go when they're ready to get the final results.
So let's do this.
I'm going to select this line and execute.
Perfect.
I have.
Why.
I have one test which will allow me to compare the predictions of whether or not a tumor is cancerous
with the real the real ground truth containing the truth whether or not this tumor is cancerous.
That's values and why tests.
Let's do this let's open Whiting's first.
That's the real values.
Then why spread the predictions.
Let's put them just next to it.
And here we go.
We can compare.
So I can already see like you know with a very quick look that the predictions are amazing.
Let's have a look at them one by one.
So the first observation which contains a certain uniformity of cell size or number of mitosis.
Well for this observation for this particular tumor the truth is that it is benign.
And our model predicted that it was indeed benign.
So perfect for aspiration correct.
Second prediction the tumor is benign.
The tumor was predicted to be benign third observation.
The tumor is cancerous.
That's the truth.
And our moral predicted that it was indeed cancerous.
Same for the fourth observation.
Cancer is the truth and cancer is the prediction.
And again we have three benign tumors here that were also predicted to be benign cancers and we're here
for real which are most predicted.
And actually I'm not seeing any error here.
We can see that the predictions are really impressive but I have actually a better way to check the
number of incorrect predictions actually.
No we're not going to look at all the 690 lines and look for the incorrect predictions.
Instead we're going to make what we call a confusion matrix.
And in this matrix basically we'll see the number of correct predictions and also the number of incorrect
predictions.
And that will be very interesting to see because not only will see the number of incorrect predictions
out of the 683 observations but also that will allow us to compute the accuracy of the model which is
simply one minus the error rate and the error is of course the number of incorrect predictions divided
by the total number of observations that will be very interesting to see.
We'll check that in the next its oil and at the same time I will introduce you to this very important
concept to understand and data science.
The false positives and the false negatives.
That's going to be the final tutorial of our section.
Until then there is science.